## Introduction
For understanding how docker works it is important to understand the very basics of how virtual machines and why docker outperformes a virtual machines by some key architectural perks. 

Head over to the docker documentation for understanding how docker is different from a virtual machine. After reading the documetation here is the conclusion I drew from it, In case a typical virtual machine there is what is called a hypervisor that runs over the host operating system in order to allocate resources to each of the guest operating systems which are essentially virtual machines. This is a bad design when compared to docker because this design is resource intensive and the resulting image and application state is an entanglement of the OS settings. What docker will do instead is use the same host operating system's kernel and the only information that needs to be in the docker container as they are called is the package dependencies and the executable for the application. 

Docker also provides great support for continuous integration and continuus delivery. Each docker container is a light weight process and this is essential as this is the key to making docker efficient and fast.

## Building an App the Docker way
The bottom of the hierarchy in building an app is the container, above this level is the service which defines how containers are supposed to behave in production. Finally at the top is the stack which defines interactions to all other services. 

### Defining a new development environment
So for instance in case of a development environment in python, we were required to install a virtual environment and the environment would be like this folder in `/home/<username>/virtualenvs/<environment_name>`. This now is an issue because we would have this requirements file and pip would have to installed in the production machines or qa machines and we would separately have to run `pip install requirements.txt` in order to install the requirements into the virtual environment set up previously in the production machine. This is all too much work. So here comes docker to ease this process. With docker, we can just grab a portable python runtime as an image, no installation necessary. Then our build can include the base python image right alongside the app thus ensuring the app, its dependencies and the runtime all travel along with the app itself. These portable images are defined in what is called the `Dockerfile`.

* Dockerfile: `Dockerfile` pretty much define what goes on inside the environment of our container. Access to resources like networking interfaces and disk drives is virtualized inside this environment, which is isolated from the rest of the system, so we will need to map ports to the outside world and be specific about what files to copy into the environment. 
